# JonTest
Demonstration C++ Unit Test Library

See also:
- [Project Documentation](https://nekenyu.github.io/JonTest/) <!-- Update to the generated documentation site -->

> [!NOTE]
> This page duplicates the doxygen main page.


# Introduction

JonTest is a rapid demonstration of certain techniques for the benefit of a particular person. Given that it functioned, it is presented as a modern example of the author's (rushed) work.

> [!WARNING]
> This is not intended for production work.
> - Genreal coding standards conventions are violated out of necessity  and convenience to the user of this tool. For example:
>   - Macro functions are used to facilitate reporting of filename and line number.
> - The author did not create this to be used and maintained.
>   - Better alternatives exist, such as boost test and google test exist.
>   - Use them.
> - Extensive real-world testing has not been performed.

This is a unit test tool providing the following:
- Minimial boilerplate for individual test suites and cases
 - single definition within a .cpp file
 - automatic test suite and case registration
- General assertions based around:
  - boolean values
  - pointer nullptr / valid (non-nullptr)
  - numeric-style comparison: == != < <= > >=
  - specific exception class (including base class) thrown
  - assertions that are known to fail
- Expected Failures of asserts can be defined:
  - Failing each contained assert will pass the test.
  - If all contained asserts pass, the expected failure will then fail the test.

This is constrained by the following:
- The build system only has GNU Make definitions to build under a GNU environment using g++.
- The build system is only configured for --std=c++23


# Overview

The TestRunne::get() singleton is used to run tests. Typically, this is from a main() function; however, it could be integrated into a larger testing system.

See also:
- main.cpp <!-- Update to the generated documentation site -->

Testing is organized a tree containing:
- Test Suites created with TEST_SUITE(suiteName), containing:
  - (Optional) Reusable Test Case data, unique for each Test Suite that is:
    - Located in the class generated by/between `TEST_SUITE(suitName) ... TEST_SUITE_END()`
    - (Optional) Initialized before each test case by the automatically run `setup() { ... }`
    - Used in each Test Case method generated by `TEST_CASE(caseName) { ... }`
    - (Optional) Cleaned up after each test case by the automatically run `teardown()`
  - (Optional) Test Case `setup()`, unique for each Test Suite, run before each Test Case in the Test Suite, which may contain:
    - Assertions of validatity, such as assert()
  - Test Cases created with TEST_CASE(caseName), verified by/containing:
    - Assertions of validatity, such as assert()
  - (Optional) Test Case `teardown()`, unique for each Test Suite, run before after Test Case in the Test Suite, which may contain:
    - Assertions of validatity, such as assert()


# Source Code Examples

See also:
- assertBool_test.cpp  <!-- Update to the generated documentation site -->

Primary header files:
- TestSuite.h  -- Defines TEST_SUITE()s and TEST_CASE()s
- Assert.h     -- Defines assert()ions of many forms
- TestRunner.h -- Defines the JonTest::TestRunner to run all the tests
- Logger.h     -- Defines the JonTest::Logger interface, and the common JonTest::StreamLogger

<!-- Update to the generated documentation site
See also:
- <a href="examples.html">Examples</a>
-->
